Tracardi is an open-source system that supports customer engagement and enhances the consumer experience. It is not a marketing automation system, but it does have some elements of marketing automation. Tracardi is intended for anyone who carries out some type of customer interaction, be it through sales or service delivery. It collects data from customer journeys in the form of events that have context and event data. Each event is assigned to a profile that is maintained throughout the period of interaction with the customer, including using a website or mobile application. 

The data is aggregated in the profile, and the method of attaching data to the profile is defined in the graphical editor, which is part of the Tracardi system. By integrating Tracardi with your system, you can use it to track each customer's interaction with the company. The scope of data processing depends on what the administrator creates in the graphical data editor. Tracardi can connect to other systems, such as AI, to analyze customer sentiment. 

Contact with the customer depends on the consents granted. Tracardi stores the consent for direct contact and, depending on the consent granted, you can send the customer a confirmation of the transaction by e-mail or display it on the website. It can also increase customer engagement by asking questions about transaction satisfaction through micro applications. Tracardi also integrates other contact methods, such as sending SMS notifications, e-mails or contact via external systems. 

Tracardi was created to help companies better understand and engage with their customers. It provides a range of tools and features that enable them to track and analyze customer behavior, and deliver personalized and seamless experiences across a variety of channels. It can help retailers to understand their customers, improve their customer experience, optimize their website content and the navigation on it, optimize their search, decrease unsolicited messaging, and integrate data.