This plugin is designed to send transactional emails via MailChimp (Mandrill) API. To use this plugin, you will need a Mandrill account and an API key, which can be generated in the settings section of the Mandrill website. Additionally, you will need to configure your domain in the MailChimp settings. Depending on the plan you have with MailChimp, you may be restricted to sending emails only within your own domain. 

The plugin takes any payload as input and returns a response from the MailChimp API. Depending on the response, the plugin will either trigger the payload port (if the response is successful) or an error port if the response indicates that the email was not sent. The plugin's configuration requires information about the API key, sender email, message recipient's email(s), message subject, and message content. The MailChimp token must be stored in Tracardi's resources, and the sender's email must end with one of the domains registered in Mandrill. The message recipient's email can be in the form of a dot path to the email address or the address itself. The message content can be either HTML or plain text, and templates can be used for both formats. 

On the MailChimp website, you can turn on the test mode after clicking on your username in the upper right corner. In the test mode, you can generate a test API key which can be used in Tracardi for testing purposes. Messages will not be sent, but MailChimp will act like they are, so you can test your configuration without being charged.